![TS3D logo](./logo.gif)

**This branch is a usage example of `jdibs`. See the Makefile for its usage.**

## Overview

Thing Shooter 3D is a mostly finished first-person shooter. It uses
terminal-based 3D graphics.

[Here](https://asciinema.org/a/380841) is a trailer/demo session showing some of
the mechanics. The video may play choppily the first time through.

The fastest way for Mac users to install the game is with Homebrew:

```
brew install turkeymcmac/tap/ts3d
```

See [windows.md](./windows.md) for how to build TS3D with MinGW and use it on
Windows. Most of the stuff in this README does not apply with Windows.

## Building

Run `make ts3d` in the project root. This does not account for updates to
dependencies. To update those, see **Dependencies**.

To build the tests, run `make tests`. A binary `tests` will be produced.

## Running

To run the game, type `TS3D_ROOT=. ./ts3d`. More information is available with
`./ts3d -h`, `man ./ts3d.6`, or through in-game help.

To run the tests and print the colored output, do `make run-tests`. You can also
call `ceeteef` directly.

## Installation

Again, the fastest installation procedure for Mac users is this:

```
brew install turkeymcmac/tap/ts3d
```

To install after cloning, run `make install exe-dir=</usr/bin or something>
man-dir=</usr/share/man/man6 or whatever>`. A script will be launched taking you
through the installation procedure. If something goes wrong, run `make uninstall
<same parameters as before>`. You may be asked to type your password to move
files to a privileged directory. Be careful, as the installer isn't the best. It
will, however, print out lots of stuff so you know what it did wrong.

If all goes well, you will be able to type `ts3d` or `man ts3d` and have good
stuff happen.

## Data

The data/ directory holds game data. The data is stored in a combination of JSON
and simpler custom formats. It is organized into sub-directories. The formats
are described in detail in data/README.

Textures and animations can be viewed with `./texture ...`. For example, to view
the frog animation, use `./texture animate data/ents/frog.json`.

## Dependencies

The external/ folder holds dependencies to other projects, with source code and
such bundled here. There are currently three dependencies, all of which I myself
created. d3d/ is the 3D graphics library. json/ is the JSON parser. ctf/ is the
testing framework.

The ctf API is included, but not the executable. To run the tests, you will need
to install that in your PATH yourself.

To update the dependencies from Github, run `external/update-all`.

I have tried to make this project as portable as possible across systems which
implement POSIX.1-2001. The only shared library dependencies are the standard
library, the standard math library, and libcurses. The two standard libraries,
as their names suggest, are required to be installed by the POSIX/C standard.
libcurses will almost definitely by installed on your system. If it is not, it
should be available through your package manager. The game seems to work with
NCurses, PDCurses, and NetBSD Curses. Theoretically, it works with any
implementation.
